KANYE West ripped his ex Kim Kardashian for kissing Pete Davidson in front of him on Saturday Night Live.
The 44-year-old called out the Keeping Up With the Kardashians alum after he threatened “legal action” against her family.
5 Kanye West was not happy with his ex Kim Kardashian for kissing Pete Davidson in front of him Credit: Getty
5 Kim and Pete locked lips during her Saturday Night Live hosting debut Credit: NBC
In a new interview with Hollywood Unlocked, Kanye criticized Kim, 41, for kissing Pete, 28, on live TV when she made her hosting debut on SNL in October.
During the episode, Kim and Pete locked lips in a sketch about Aladdin and Jasmin.
Noting that he was in New York City to support Kim on the show, Kanye said: "How you gonna bring me to SNL and then kiss the dude you dating right in front of me?"
MORE CLAIMS
While speaking to Hollywood Unlocked’s Jason Lee, the rapper also explained how he got a laptop with Kim and Ray J’s sex tape during the reality star’s SNL appearance.
Kanye claimed he “went and got the laptop from Ray J,” adding: "Everybody’s like, 'Oh, that’s cool.'
“After I went and got the laptop from Ray J that night, right? I met this man at the airport, then got on the red eye, came back... delivered it to her at 8am in the morning.”
The hitmaker continued: “I gave it to her, and she cried when she saw it.
"You know why she cried when she saw that laptop? It represents how much she’s been used."
He concluded: "It represents how much people didn’t love her, they just saw her as a commodity."
LEGAL THREATS
Kanye also threatened the Kardashian clan with “legal action” during the Hollywood Unlocked interview.
He suggested his intention while discussing how it felt to almost be left out of his daughter Chicago’s fourth birthday party earlier this month.
Kanye shaded the famous family and how they talk about his publicly, stating: "And to participate without no noise.
"'Cause they can go on SNL and make jokes. They can make jokes in the media. They can plant stories about whoever I'm dating whatever they want to do.
"They can block deals. They could do all that type of stuff."
He continued: "But I'm going to tell you straight up, don't play with my kids.
"Don't play with my kids. Whoever y'all work for, whoever y'all think the family is working for, I'm telling you right now, don't play with my children.
"And it's going to be all legal. It's going to be all legal, baby."
He added: "You ain't gonna gaslight me, it's going to be calm like this. But that's not what we gonna play."
Kanye seemed to be extremely hurt that he was not "allowed to know" where Chicago's birthday would be held.
However, he ended up making it to the party and credited Kylie Jenner's baby daddy Travis Scott with cluing him in.
THE END OF KIMYE
The reality star filed for divorce from the entertainer in February 2021 after nearly seven years of marriage.
In addition to Chicago, Kim and Kanye share kids North, eight, Saint, six, and Psalm, two.
As Kim has moved on with Pete, Kanye recently started dating actress Julia Fox, 31.
5 Kanye also claimed he tracked down Kim's sex tape with Ray J Credit: Getty
5 The exes share four kids together Credit: Instagram / Kim Kardashian
5 Kim started dating Pete in late October Credit: Instagram/@angelinas_ristorante