BORIS Johnson does not believe he broke Covid laws but will fully cooperate with Scotland Yard's Partygate probe, No10 said today.
Coming out swinging, the PM himself assured furious MPs the Met's investigation would "draw a line" under the crisis engulfing his premiership.
3 Boris Johnson leaves No10 today Credit: EPA
3 Cressida Dick made the stunning announcement this morning Credit: PA
Met chief Dame Cressida Dick finally bowed to pressure to launch a probe into the avalanche of allegations of rule-breaking bashes.
The dramatic escalation came just hours after it was revealed that the PM held an indoor birthday bash at the height of the first lockdown.
Dame Cressida this morning confirmed her cops will investigate several - but not all - of the reported rule breaches in No10 and across Whitehall.
But defiant Mr Johnson told MPs: "I welcome the Met’s decision to conduct its own investigation because I believe this will help to give the public the clarity it needs and help draw a line under matters.
"I and the whole Govt are focussed 100 per cent on dealing with the people's priorities including the UK’s leading role in protecting freedom around the world."
In another dramatic day in Westminster:
The Cabinet Office today insisted that the Sue Gray investigation is still continuing despite the police probe
The PM's top team were locked inside No10 at a cabinet meeting when the news broke
Commons leader Jacob Rees-Mogg was first to bat for the PM - telling the waiting cameras outside No10: "I am honoured to be under his leadership" and hailed his "brilliant" decisions
Labour's Angela Rayner branded the development "a truly damning reflection on our nation’s very highest office"
ELLO ELLO
Downing Street confirmed that staff including the PM will cooperate in the Met's probe.
Asked if Mr Johnson was willing to be interviewed by cops, his spokesman said: "Anyone asked to will cooperate fully, as you would expect."
Pressed if the PM believes he has broken the law, the spokesman added: "I need to be cautious about what I say but I think that's fair to say that he does not."
It is extremely rare for a serving prime minister to be involved in potentially criminal probes in this way.
Tony Blair was interviewed three times as a witness and vowed to resign if he was ever questioned by cops under caution.
No10 is now on red alert for the Tory mutiny to reach the 54 letters of no confidence required to trigger a vote of no confidence.
Dozens of Conservative MPs had been waiting for the Sue Gray report before casting judgement.
After No10 originally confirmed Ms Gray will pause her inquiries, she could now press ahead and publish this week.
Westminster was sent into meltdown this morning when Dame Cressida used a City Hall evidence session to announce the probe.
In a startling opening statement, Dame Cressidatold the London Assembly: "As a result of the information provided by the Cabinet office and my officers own assessment, I can confirm the Met is now investigating a number of events that took place at Downing Street and Whitehall in the last two years in relation to breaches of Covid 19 regulations."
She refused to say how long it might take, when it would report back, or whether the PM would be investigated himself.
Partygate saga could now drag on for weeks SUE Gray's make-or-break probe into Downing Street parties will now be delayed while the Met investigates. Scotland Yard is not looking into all the reported bashes - but for the ones they are investigating Ms Gray will pause her work. She can still continue investigating - and publish findings - for the parties not under police scrutiny. An insider said: "The investigation being carried out by Sue Gray is continuing. "There is in ongoing contact with the Metropolitan Police Service." Met detectives are understood to be starting their investigation from scratch, meaning the probe will likely take weeks or possibly months. Downing St have said it will "fully cooperate" with the investigation. Dame Cressida Dick said she will not provide a "running commentary" of the probe - but today let slip a few clues. She said the criteria for an investigation included clear "evidence" and "little ambiguity of absence of any reasonable defence". She also did not deny that CCTV cameras would be trawled for any more evidence.
HARD YARD
Dame Cressida told politicians when challenged about why police have not investigated so far: "We police without fear or favour.
"We police impartially, we police in an operationally independent manner.
"In general we have not normally investigated breaches of the regulations when they have been reported long after they are said have been taken place.
"It would not normally be a proportionate use of time investigating after the fact."
She said they would do that only it was "serious and flagrant type of breach" with significant evidence, and when those involved "knew or ought to have known that what they were doing was an offence".
They also only probe when not investigating would have undermined the law, and there was little evidence of a clear defence, she said.
It means fixed penalty notices could be dished out to those who were found to have breached the rules.
The Police said today that the Cabinet Office had "provided outline findings from its inquiry to the MPS" and after "detailed assessments" the Met had decided to open investigations.
A statement from the force said: "Where multiple events occurred on a particular date at a location, all the events on that date will initially fall within the remit of the investigation so that the full circumstances can be established. This does not mean that everyone who attended an event will be investigated.
"The MPS has written to the Cabinet Office this morning with a formal request for it to refer all relevant information gathered from its inquiry in relation to events on the dates in question to support the police investigations."
CABINET SUPPORT
Cabinet Ministers gathered inside Downing Street were blindsided by the probe despite No10 learning of the development in advance.
Some were privately furious they were not warned, and sent out into the full glare of the cameras.
Loyalist Minister Jacob Rees-Mogg rushed straight out to defend the PM, insisting under his leadership the government was going "from strength to strength".
Boris-ally Michael Fabricant said: "I am pleased that @metpoliceuk are now involved along with Sue Gray of the Cabinet Office investigating so-called "Party-Gate".
"Rather better to have a professional investigation than trial by social and mainstream media!"
But former minister Tobias Ellwood told Sky News: "I think my confidence [in Boris] is slipping away.
"It's all about short term survival propping up the Prime Minister rather than long term reform, and I'm afraid we're going to end up heading towards a very dark chapter, unless things change very soon."
Labour came out to ask the Met why it took so long to investigate in the first place.
Deputy leader Ms Rayner blasted: "It seems potential criminality has been found in Downing Street.
"What a truly damning reflection on our nation’s very highest office."
Last night the PM became engulfed in a fresh scandal after admitting to an indoor birthday celebration in the first lockdown.
The Prime Minister turned 56 on June 19, 2020, with No10 confirming staff gathered to wish him well in the Cabinet Room when indoor social mixing was banned.
It is claimed his then fiancée Carrie surprised the PM with a cake and led a chorus of Happy Birthday with at least 30 staff members.
A Downing Street insider last night said: "This was a few people who were in the office saying happy birthday, it was not a party."
3 Jacob Rees Mogg came straight out to bat for the PM Credit: PA
ITV News said well-wishers included the interior designer Lulu Lytle, who was at the time in charge of the controversial six-figure revamp of the PM’s flat.
But No10 insisted that the PM was there for “less than ten minutes” after staff had “gathered briefly” after a meeting.
Cabinet ally Nadine Dorries added: "So, when people in an office buy a cake in the middle of the afternoon for someone else they are working in the office with and stop for ten minutes to sing happy birthday and then go back to their desks, this is now called a party?"
Several other gatherings took place in No10 over the past two years - including a leaving do on the eve of Prince Philip's funeral, Christmas bashes, and several other events.
It's not clear which ones will be looked at by the police.
But Ms Dick did say that some of them did not meet the threshold for an investigation.
The PM has been dogged for weeks over the partygate scandal, which is threatening to overshadow his premiership.
Several MPs have already called for a leadership contest and have submitted letters to Sir Graham Brady.
But many were waiting for the outcome of Ms Gray's probe before making their move.
What does it mean for Boris Johnson? TODAY'S news that the police will investigate Downing Street parties could prove crucial for Boris Johnson. Cressida Dick's probe into whether laws were broken at No10 has the potential to be far more serious than Sue Gray's report, which won't say whether she thinks the gatherings were illegal or not. And now her probe has been kicked into the long grass until the Met are finished with their own investigations. It could go one of two ways for the under-fire PM, who is already facing a growing chorus of grumpy MPs who think it's time for him to quit. The police action may give Boris a much-needed reprieve to get a grip on his fledgling leadership and persuade his MPs he is still the best man for the job. Any probe is likely to take weeks to conclude, meaning the immediate pressure building up could die down, and plotting MPs may be given some time to settle down. However, it's completely unprecedented for a serving PM to be involved in a police investigation in this way. It may be that furious politicians now decide he can no longer save his skin and it's time for him to go now. The serious news that the PM could be dragged into a criminal investigation, let alone interviewed under caution, may be enough for critics of Boris to put their letters of no confidence in. As MPs go back to their constituencies and hear from angry voters on the doorstep and local Tories, they may come to the conclusion he's no longer going to be an electoral asset - and may now be a threat. Some MPs already feel the Government is stuck, with the workings of Whitehall now completely paralysed by the ongoing drama. Decisions and announcements are already being delayed as officials and No10 all turn their focus to the ongoing partygate scandal. Westminster is unable to move on and the PM can't get back on the front foot until these are wrapped up. And the Met Police probe - no matter how quickly it might take place - is unlikely to help that.
No10 has admitted staff gathered to wish the PM well in the Cabinet Room
Sue Gray's investigation now won't be published yet