SPOTIFY is taking Harry and Meghan's £18million podcast project "into its own hands" by hiring a host of in-house producers to finally help deliver content.
The streaming giant has been waiting more than a year for the runaway royals to produce material as part of their mega-money deal.
4 Prince Harry and Meghan Markle signed their rumoured £18million Spotify deal in late 2020 Credit: AFP
4 Spotify says it's hiring for a "new original show with Archewell featuring the voices of high profile women"
Spotify said it was looking forward to a "full-scale" launch of shows in 2021 - but nothing appeared.
Now bosses at the streaming platform are stepping in to help Harry and Meghan deliver the goods.
They are recruiting new in-house staff to work with Harry and Meghan's Archewell Audio for a show that features "the voices of high profile women."
The jobs are being offered to applicants on short six-month contracts based in Los Angeles.
One advert for a senior producer role at Gimlet Projects, Spotify's own production arm, reads: "We’re currently assembling a show team that will build and launch a new original show with Archewell featuring the voices of high profile women.
"The ideal candidate has experience working with high-profile talent, and an interest in the intersection of social activism and popular culture."
Read our Meghan and Harry live blog for the latest updates
Harry and Meghan's only podcast effort so far has been a 35-minute 'holiday special' in December 2020, featuring celebrity pals such as Elton John and James Corden.
Fans have been questioning when their so-called "full-scale launch" of episodes would be coming.
A source close to the project said: "Spotify has been waiting a long time for some content from Harry and Meghan and now it appears they have finally taken matters into their own hands.
"Hiring a raft of in-house talent on Spotify's side will ensure they finally squeeze something out of them as they bid to honour their contract."
Harry and Meghan's lack of content came despite the duo hiring high-flying podcast producer Rebecca Sanaes as their 'head of audio' at Archewell last year.
The Sun reported in November that Harry and Meghan were working to protect the £18million deal after failing to muster up any content.
With only one show under their belts, the streaming platform has so far paid the couple £500,000 for each minute.
Meanwhile, Harry has appeared on numerous other podcasts including Dax Shepard’s Armchair Expert in May, where he said his life was like Jim Carrey film The Truman Show.
They both also found time to sit down for their sensational Oprah interview in March last year — while the Duchess later played pranks on the Ellen DeGeneres show.
Spotify and Archewell were approached for comment.
4 Harry and Meghan found time to sit down for their sensational Oprah Winfrey interview Credit: AP
4 Meghan also played pranks on the American public on the Ellen DeGeneres show Credit: BackGrid